Section 07: Case Adaptation by Model of the World
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

.. youtube:: piN06ZijTFk
        :height: 315
        :width: 560
        :align: left

Let us look at the first, the model base method for adapting our case. Once again we're in this micro world. Let us suppose that we begin from our office, and we need to go to a restaurant. Given the problem of going from the office to the restaurant, let us suppose that we retrieve from memory a case that takes us to a doctor's office, which is quite close to the restaurant but not the same as the restaurant. So one way in which I might be able to allot this case that I have received to address the problem going from the office to the restaurant, is to do a search using this model, this map of the world, which tells me that to go from the doctor's office to the restaurant office, you can take this particular route. So now, I have the earlier case, which I've adapted, using some model of the world. This is an example of using models In order to adapt cases. So in my programming example earlier, instead of having a map of the world, we might have for example an API for interacting with a particular language. I've done input from a file in Python several hundred times, but I've never done it in Java before. I know that the overall process of doing in from Java is going to be very similar to the process of doing it in Python. And I have a model of the way Java works, to know how to actually translate my case of doing in it in Python to doing it in Java. Good example David. It is another one. This one is from design. When we design with this kind of product, let's suppose a VLSI circuit for example, than we not only know something about the configuration of the elements in the design, we also have a model of how that particular configuration is supposed to work. In fact, it might amuse you, David, that about 25 years back in the 80s, when I wrote my PhD dissertation, it was one of the first PhD dissertations that integrated model-based spacing and case-based spacing. That was exactly the idea in my PhD dissertation. You used models to be able to adapt, evaluate, and store cases.
