Section 10: The Seventh Principle
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

.. youtube:: PwH8QEg7jqM
        :height: 315
        :width: 560
        :align: left

So the seventh and last principle of knowledge based AI agents in CS7637 is that the architecture of knowledge based AI agents enables reasoning, learning, and memory to support and constrain each other. Instead of building a theory of reasoning or problem solving by itself or a theory of learning by itself or a theory of memory by itself, we are trying to build unified theories, theories where reasoning, learning, and memory coexist. Memory stores and organizes knowledge. Learning acquires knowledge. Reasoning uses knowledge. Knowledge is the glue between these three. One place that we saw reasoning, learning, and memory coming together very well was in production systems. When reasoning failed, an impasse was reached then. Memory provided some episodic knowledge and a learning mechanism of chunking extracted a rule from that episodic knowledge. And that rule broke the impulse and reasoning could proceed a pace. This is a clear example where reasoning, learning, and memory came together in a unified architecture. In logic, memory, or the knowledge base, may begin with a set of axioms. And those set of axioms decide what we can prove using that particular logic. To look at the problem, conversely, depending upon the reasoning, we need to put into the knowledge base, so that the reasoning can be supported. Exploration of this learning was under the place. Where reasoning learning and memory came together so well. Memory supplied us with the earlier precedents. Reasoning led to the composition of this explanation which explained why this instance was an example of a cup. This lead to learning about the connections between this weirdest precedence to an explanation. Here in the correcting mistakes was yet another example of, learning, reasoning, and memory coming together. Where a failure occurred, when the agent used it's previous knowledge, memory, to reason and identify the fault responsible for the failure, reasoning, and then corrected that particular fault, learning, in order to get the correct model. This knowledge based paradigm says that we want to be able to reach unified, that connect reasoning, learning and memory. And this also connects very well with human cognition, human cognition, of course, has reasoning and learning and memory intertwined together. It is not as if memory and human cognition works by itself or learning works by itself or reasoning works by itself. You cannot divorce them from each other.

