Section 26: Principles of CS7637
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::


.. youtube:: _eOgBv0NMsc
        :height: 315
        :width: 560
        :align: left

Our discussion of knowledge-based agents in this CS7637 class is organized around seven principals. Be on the lookout for the seven principals, they’ll occur again and again throughout the course. Principal number one, agents use knowledge to guide reasoning and they represent and organize this knowledge into knowledge structures. Principle number two, learning is of- ten incremental. This connects back to one of the characteristics of problems, where data and experience was coming incrementally. Number three, reasoning is top down not just bottom up. We just don’t reason from data, we also use data to pull out knowledge from memory, then we use this knowledge to generate expectations to make sense of the world. Principle number four, knowledge-based AI agents match methods to tasks. We’ll discuss a number of different methods. We’ll also discuss several tasks. Later, we’ll discuss how AI agents can select specific methods to address particular tasks and even integrate different methods to address complex tasks. Principle number five, agents use heuristics to find solutions that are good enough. They do not necessarily find optimal solutions. This is because of a trade off between computer efficiency and the optimality of solutions. Our focus will be on using bounded rationality and yet, giving near real-time time performance on intractable problems. This happens, because agents use heuristics to find solutions that are just good enough. Principle number six, agents make use of recurring patterns of problems in the world. Of course, there are a number of problems. But even this number of problems are characterized the patterns that occur again and again. Number seven, reasoning, learning and memory constrain and support each other. We’ll build theories that are not just theories of reasoning or theories of learning or theories of memory, but we’ll build theories that unify the three of them into one single cognitive system. These principles will come again and again in this particular class. So we highly recommend that you take a moment, pause the video and read over the principles once again.