Section 18: Detecting Conflicts
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

.. youtube:: YquFo0sUBKY
        :height: 315
        :width: 560
        :align: left

So what the partial or the planner has done so far is to view the two goals as if they were independent of each other. And come up with a partial plan for each of the two goals. It has not yet detected any conflicts between that will not resolve those conflicts. The next thing would be to examine the relationship between these two plans and see if there are any conflicts between. But how might a partial order plan go about detecting conflicts between two plans? So, here is plan one imagined, here is plan two. The partial order planner may go about detecting conflicts. We're look at each precondition of the current plan. Under the precondition of an operator any current plan is clobbered by some state in the, another plan, in the second plan, than the partial order planner would know that there's a conflict between them. [UNKNOWN] goal resolving these conflicts, but promoting or demoting one clients goal or another clients goal. There's if some stated plan B covers the application of some operator in plan A, then we now want to alter the goals in this plan and this plan in such a way that this operator's done before that state is achieved. Now, let us see how the partial order planner may go about detecting conflicts within these two plans. So the partial order planner may begin with this plan for painting the ladder. And see whether the precondition of this operator, paint-ladder, are clobbered by any state in the second plan. As it turns out, that doesn't happen in this example. Now, the partial order planner will look at the operands in the second plan. And see whether the preconditions of any of the operators are clobbered by some status in this first plan. So let's look at climb-ladder here. The precondition of climb-ladder is, on robot, floor, and dry ladder. And as this precondition is compared with the states. In the first plan, we can eventually see the conflict. Here is dry ladder, and here is not dry ladder. And this way the partial order planner has been able to find that the water-less states here in the first plan proverbs the precondition of one operator on this second plan. To resolve this conflict, the partial order planner may promote these goals or the goal of painting the ladder. Some of you also noticed that after the robot has painted the ceiling, the robot is on ladder. But in order to apply the paint ladder operator, the robot must be on the floor. So here there is an open condition problem. This particular condition where this operator is not being satisfied. When the robot is on the ladder. We'll come to this in a minute.

