Section 17: Exercise Partial Planning
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

.. youtube:: US-zOcGM-1U
        :height: 315
        :width: 560
        :align: left

What did you write, David? So I can tell that the first thing the robot is going to have to do to paint this ceiling is climb the ladder. So I'm first going to apply the climb ladder operator, that's going to result in the robot being on the ladder, but the state of the ladder and the ceiling haven't changed. And then now that the robot is on the ladder, it'll apply the paint ceiling operator, which results in painted ceiling added to the state and the dry ceiling negated. That's good, David. So this is the structure of the final plan. Another question to ask here is how might a robot come up with such a plan? So let's do the same thing that we have done here earlier. We're going to use goal as a control knowledge to select an operator. So we know that we want to have the ceiling painted. So the question then becomes of the available operators, which operator has a post condition painted ceiling. And the only operator who's post-condition ceiling is the operator, paint-celiling. So we set up that operator. So we're working backwards here. Painted-ceiling was a good condition, we selected paint-ceiling as the operator. But this paint-ceiling now has some pre conditions. One of the pre conditions is On Robot Ladder, which is different from On Robot Floor in the initial state. So now the question becomes, how can we achieve this sub goal of Robot on Ladder? If we use that sub goal as the control knowledge, then we want to select an operator whose post conditions will match this top goal and that operator is climb ladder. So now we have that climb ladder here and the preconditions of climb ladder match this initial state and that is how we get to this plan, climb ladder and paint ceiling. So we were working backwards using goal knowledge as control knowledge to select between operators. So note that we just made a connection back to problem reduction that we talked about right after means and analysis. Ashok in his description talked about the sub goal of getting up the ladder. When we talked about problem reduction earlier, we talked about the need to break big problems down into smaller problems. But we didn't exactly talk about how an agent would go about doing that. Here we see one way in which an agent would go about actually identifying those subgoals in order to accomplish the final goal.

