Section 23: Identification Tree
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

.. youtube:: c5HJT1H8a2c
        :height: 315
        :width: 560
        :align: left

It is one of the method we can use, to process the kind of the data that we just saw. It is sometimes called decision-free learning. Recall that we were discussing case-based learning, we talked about discrimination tree learning. There, we learned the discrimination tree incrementally. A case would come one at a time, and we would ask the question, what feature would discriminate between the existing cases, and the new case? And we would pick a feature. Discrimination pre-learning provides no guarantee of the optimality of this tree. That is to say, at retrieval time, when a new problem comes along, traversing this tree might take a long time because this tree is not the most optimal tree was during these cases. We'll discuss an alternative method called decision tree learning, which will give us more optimal trees, however, at a cost. The cost will be that all the examples will need to be given right at the beginning. Let us return to our restaurant example. We want to learn a decision tree that will classify these five examples so that as a new problem comes along, we can quickly find which is the closest example to the new problem. To do this, we need to pick one of four features, restaurant, meal, day or cost that will separate these allergic reactions, so that one category contains either only false instances, or only true instances. As an example, supposing we think of restaurant as being the decisive feature. So we have picked restaurant as a decisive feature. Now, there are three kinds of restaurants. Kim's, Bob's, and Sam's. Whenever it's Kim's restaurant, or Bob's restaurant, there is no allergic reaction. Whenever it's Sam's restaurant, there can be allergic action shown in green here, or no allergic reaction, shown in red. So the good thing about this particular feature, restaurant, is that, it has separated all the five examples into two classes. Into the class Sam's, and into the class not Sam's. Not Sam class consists of only negative reactions, which is good, because we know that we have now been able to classify all of these five examples into two sets, one of which contains only negative examples. Now for these three examples, you must pick another feature that will separate them into positive and negative instances. In this case, we might consider cost to be that feature. When the cost is cheap, then we get positive examples. When the cost is expensive, then we get negative examples. This is a classification tree. And in fact, this is a very efficient classification tree. When a new problem comes around, for example visit6. Sam's, lunch, Friday, cost is expensive, and you want to decide what the allergic reaction might be, we simply have to travel through this tree, to find out, the closest neighbor, of that particular new example. This is called a decision tree. And this technique that we just discussed is called decision tree learning. This method of inductive decision tree learning worked much more efficiency and apparently more easily than earlier method that we have discussed. But the trade off is that we needed to know all the five examples right in the beginning. Of course, this technique simply appears to be efficient and easy. And that is because we had only five examples, and only four features that were describing all five examples. If the number of examples was very large, or the number of features that were describing the examples were very large. Then it's very hard to decide what exactly should be the feature that we should use to discriminate on.

