Section 10 : What is Knowledge-Based AI
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

.. youtube:: hTjgSnEYZyk
        :height: 315
        :width: 560
        :align: center

Let's start with looking at an example of an AI agent in action. Many are you are family with Watson, the IBM program that plays Jeopardy. Some of you may not be, and that's fine, we'll show an example in a minute. When you watch Watson in action, try to think. What are some of the things Watson must know about? What are some of the things that Watson must be able to reason about in order to play Jeopardy? Write them down. And anytime you feel the pain, hey, this guy refrain. Don't carry the world upon your shoulders. Watson? Who is, Jude? Yes. Olympic Oddities, for 200. Milorad Cavic almost upset this man's perfect 2008 Olympics, losing to him by one-hundredth of a second. Watson. Who is Michael Phelps. Yes, go. Name the decade for 200. Disneyland opens and the peace symbol is create. Ken. What are the 50s? Yes. Final Frontiers for 1,000, Alex. Tickets aren't needed for this event, a black hole's boundary from which matter can not escape. Watson. What is event horizon?Let us look at the processes that Watson may be using a little bit more closely. Clearly Wat- son is doing a large number of things. It is trying to understand natural language sentences. It is trying to generate some natural language sentences. It is making some decisions. I'll group all of these things broadly under reasoning. Reasoning is a fundamental process of knowledge based data. A second fundamental process of knowledge based AIs learning. What simply is learning also? It perhaps gets a right answer to some questions, and stores that answer somewhere. If it gets a wrong answer, and then once it learns about the right answer, it stores the right answer also somewhere. Learning to is a fundamental process of knowledge based AI. A third fundamental process of knowledge based AI is memory. If you're going to learn something, that knowledge that you're learning has to be store somewhere, in memory. If you're going to reason using knowledge, then that knowledge has to accessed from somewhere, from memory. From memory process it will store, what we learn as well as provide access to knowledge it will need for reasoning. These three forms of processes of learning, memory, and reasoning are intimately connected. We learn, so that we can reason. The result of reasoning often. Result in additional learning. Once we learn, we can store it in memory. However, we need knowledge to learn. The more we know, the more we can learn. Reasoning requires knowledge that memory can provide access to. The results of reasoning can also go into memory. So, here are three processes that are closely related. A key aspect of this course on knowledge based AI is that we will be talking about theories of knowledge based AI that unify reasoning, learning, and memory. And sort of, discussing any one of the three separately as sometimes happens in some schools of AI. We're going to try to build, unify the concept. These 3 processes put together, I will call them deliberation. This deliberation process is 1 part of the overall architecture of a knowledge based AI agent. This figure illustrates the older architecture of an AI agent. Here we have input in the form of perceptions of the world. And output in the form of actions in the world. The agent may have large number of processes that map these perceptions to actions. We are going to focus right now on deliberation, but the agent architecture also includes metacognition and reaction, that we'll discuss later.

