Section 12 : Exercise : What is KBAI?
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

.. youtube:: eztW5F5eWEU
        :height: 315
        :width: 560
        :align: center

So one thing that many students in this class are probably familiar with is Sebastian Thrun's Robotics class on autonomous vehicles. David, where do you think an autonomous vehicle would fall on the spectrum? So it seems to me like an autonomous vehicle definitely moves around in the world so it certainly acts in the world. And driving is a very human-like behavior so I'd say that it acts like a human. What do you think? Do you agree with David?

.. mchoice:: Ch09Ex3
   :answer_a: Yes, because an autonomous car mimics a human behavior
   :answer_b: No, because an autonomous car just does the thinking; something else does the acting
   :answer_c: No, because it's more important for an autonomous vehicle to act correctly than to act like humans
   :answer_d: No, because an autonomous car just thinks instead of acts, and the thinking isn't even human like
   :correct: c
   :feedback_a: It's true that an autonomous car duplicates a behavior that humans do, but in KBAI, we're more interested in the thought process that underlies the behavior. Does an autonomous car think about driving the same way we do?
   :feedback_b: We could certainly make the case that there are separate systems at play in an autonomous car; there is a system for navigation, a system for viewing the world, and a system for actually steering and moving the car. For the purposes of this exercise, however, we're considering the autonomous car as a whole to be one entire agent. Does this agent just think, or does it act in the world?
   :feedback_c: That answer makes sense! It would seem that when being driven by an autonomous vehicle, we care more about whether it successfully avoids accidents and gets us to the destination than whether it actually thinks about these goals the way we do.
   :feedback_d: We could certainly make the case that there are separate systems at play in an autonomous car; there is a system for navigation, a system for viewing the world, and a system for actually steering and moving the car. For the purposes of this exercise, however, we're considering the autonomous car as a whole to be one entire agent. Does this agent just think, or does it act in the world?

   Is David right?