Section 18 : Topics in KBAI
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

.. youtube:: oLiQQGJYqp4
        :height: 315
        :width: 560
        :align: center

We have organized the materials in this course, into eight major units, this chart illustrates those eight units. So starting from the top left, the first unit has to do with Fundamentals of presentation and recent, Panning, Common Sense Reasoning. Analogical Reasoning, Metacognition that we just talked a little about, Design & Creativity, Visuospatial Reasoning, and Learning. Now let's look at each of these circles, one at a time. So in the first part, dealing with the Fundamentals of this course. We'll be dealing with certain, knowledge representations, and reasoning strategies. Two of the major knowledge representations that we'll dis- cuss in the rst part of this course, are called Semantic Networks, and Production Systems. Three of the reasoning strategies, are called Gen- erate and Test, Means-End Analysis, and Prob- lem Reduction. Note that, the arrows here im- ply an ordering. There is an ordering. In that, when we are discussing our Production Systems, we might allude to things that we are discussing in the Semantic Networks. Similarly, when we discuss Means-End Analysis, we might allude to things that we are discussing in Generate and Test. However. It is important to note also, that these three methods are completely independent from each other. It's just that we are going to discuss them, in the order shown here. Similarly these two knowledge representations, are inde- pendent from each other. It's simply that in this course, we'll discuss them in this order. So the second major unit in this course. Pertains to Planning. Planning is kind of problem solving activity whose goal is to come up with plans, for achieving one or more goals. Before we discuss Planning, we'll discuss Logic as a knowledge rep- resentation. This knowledge representation, will then enable us to discuss Planning in a system- atic way. The third major unit in this course is common sense reasoning. Common Sense Rea- soning, pertains to reasoning about every day situations in the world. As an example, I may give you the input, John gave the book to Mary. Note the input, does not specify who has the book at the end. But, you can draw that in- ference easily. That is an example of Common Sense Reasoning. In our course, we'll discuss both knowledge representations like frames, as well as methods for doing Common Sense Rea- soning. As we discussed earlier, when we were talking about the architecture of a cognitive sys- tem, Learning is a fundamental process within deliberation. And therefore, we will be visiting the issue of Learning many, many times through- out this course. However, we also have a unit on Learning, which has several topics in it. There are other topics in Learning, that do not show up in this particular. Circle here but are dis- tributed throughout the course. Another ma- jor unit in our course is Analogical Reasoning. Analogical Reasoning is, reasoning about novel problems or novel situations, but, analogic to what we know about familiar problems, or fa- miliar situations. As I mentioned earlier, Learn- ing is distributed throughout this course. There- fore Learning comes here in Analogical Reason- ing also. In fact Learning by recording cases appeared in the Learning topic as well as here, and you can see explanation based Learning oc- curring here. Visuospatial Reasoning is another major unit in our course. Visuospatial Reason- ing pertains to reasoning with visual knowledge. As an example, I might draw a diagram and rea- son with the diagram. That's an example of Visualspatial Reasoning. In the context of Vi- sualspatial Reasoning, we're talking both about Constraint Propagation, and using that to do Vi- sualspatial Reasoning. Design & Creativity is the next topic in our course. We want to build AI systems, that can deal with novel situations, and come up with creative solutions. Design is an example of a complex task which can be very, very creative, where we are discussing a range of topics in the context of Design & Creativity. So in the next topic in our courses Metacogni- tion, we have already come across a notion in Metacognition, when we were talking about the architecture of the cognize system. Metacogni- tion pertains to thinking about thinking. And we'll discuss a range of topics and then, we will end the course by talking about Ethics in Arti- cial Intelligence. This gure illustrates all the eight major units once again, as well as the topics within each major unit. I hope this will give you mental map of the organization of the course as a whole. In preparing this course, we came up with a ordering of the topics, which will inter- leave many of these topics. So we will not do the entire rst unit, before we go to the entire second unit and so on. Instead, we will do some parts of rst unit, then go to some other part that follows conceptually from it, and so there will be some interleaving among these topics. And one aspect of the personalization is, that you are welcome to go through these topics in your own chosen order. You don't have to stay, with the kind of order that we'll be using. This is an excit- ing agenda. I hope you are as excited as I am. There are very few, opportunities where we can talk about exotic topics, like Analogical Reasoning, and Creativity, and Metacognition. And, in this particular course, we'll talk about all of them together.